I hope you guys have had an amazing week.
Um, as we were talking
earlier, it was a blur.
That's what Brittany mentioned.
Somebody says, how was your week?
She's like, I don't know it was a blur.
So maybe for you, it was a blur.
Maybe it was a great week.
Maybe it was a slow week, but excited
that you guys have, uh, decided to come
and worship with us and spend some time.
Um, getting into God's word
because we know that God's
word never returns void, right?
God's word never returns void.
I have to remind myself that every time.
And that's why my challenge to you.
If you've got five minutes every day,
even if minimum of five minutes, right.
Obviously go more.
If you can get in the word, because
when you get in the word, the word gets
into your heart and then gets into your
life and then comes outta your life.
Right.
And then the more that we enjoy
the word, the more that we learn.
So.
Today, we're gonna beat in
Psalm one 50, Psalm one 50.
Here's an easy one.
Go to the last page in your Bible.
And it's the last Psalm in that.
So it's very, very easy
for you to find it.
Um, so this is going to set up next week.
So next week we are having a worship.
Service meaning a worship only service.
Um, our family will be
traveling out, um, to St.
Louis to one of our church partners
that brings mission teams out
here supports us financially.
They've invited us out to their
global missions conference to
share an update about our church
and what God's doing here.
And to be able to meet some
of their people and kind of
make some connections there.
So in that you guys will
have an opportunity to
worship together or worship.
Team's got an amazing day planned
out from prayer to, to worship,
to reading of God's word.
So I would say this come
ready to participate in it.
Um, my encouragement for you, if you
have young kids bring, if you, if
you know that, Hey, they're normally
in class, cuz we won't have kids
class, um, bring something to lay
out on the ground, bring some toys.
Just, I mean that honestly I
tell everybody this, every.
Every week, not just worship Sundays
every week, feel free to literally
lay something down on the ground.
Some toys in the middle of my
preaching or in the middle of music.
This is family.
So I think if you guys were at my
house, you would do the same thing.
So this is God's house and God would
love for little kids to just kind of roll
around and play with toys as they need to.
So feel free to come be just
involved in that worship Sunday.
Um, but because of that,
we wanted to talk about.
Worship this week and how, uh, the, the
word of God talks about what worship is.
And, um, I'm, I'm very,
very excited about that.
And one of the things I just wanna mention
just in this idea of, of where our church
is right now, I believe that God is
doing something unique in our church.
Now you may say you're looking
around going well, it is unique.
Uniquely smaller right now because there's
some people out because they're sick.
I would say that God's doing something
unique in each person in our group.
And I know I, I don't have a personal
connection with each one of you and
probably know what your day to day is.
Uh, but as I continue to just talk
with, uh, see God moving in people's
lives, uh, be able to pray with him
and encourage them and just, just
see what God's doing in our city.
And some of the, the opportunities
that we have, God is doing some.
About what God isn't doing.
Anybody ever get that way?
I, I, I love talking about what
God's not doing rather than
celebrating what God's doing.
So God is doing some
awesome, awesome things.
Why.
Is God not revealing to me like
where our next location's gonna be.
Cuz we're looking for a new space right.
To worship or you know why this isn't
happening, why that isn't happening.
I I've I've come to the conclusion
and you may think this is funny that
it's taking me this long, but usually
I have seasons where I come to the
conclusion and then I forget it.
Um, the reason why God isn't reveal
that to me, cuz it's none of my concern.
That's his, his concern.
My concern is what God has given us now
to begin to pour into and to minister.
And if I'll look.
Be amazed that all the opportunities
God has giving us to, to know
him and to make him known to
know him and to make him known.
And so God is just really
challenging me in that.
Right.
And so when I started thinking about today
about worship, I just wrote down this
statement, God has already done so much
in my life and in this church that if
he didn't do one more thing, it would be
enough to praise him the rest of my life.
I'm gonna say that.
God has already done so much
in my life and in this church's
life that if he didn't do one
more thing, it would be enough to
praise him for the rest of my life.
See, that's a challenging statement
to say, because, you know, we, we
all like more and I think at times
God's challenging us to, to stop
and praise him for what he has done.
Right.
Praise him for what he.
Here's the thing that's so cool.
If you read God's word and you know,
God's heart, God's not done, right.
We've been talking about this.
We've actually got some shirts
that we're making, talking about.
God's not done with you.
He's not done with me.
He's not done with us.
He's not done with this.
What does that mean?
God's not done working in any of
our lives, so it's not that God's
saying, Hey, stay where you are.
Don't move.
What he's saying is enjoy the journey.
Don't forget what God has done for you.
Celebrate where you.
We know God desires to see more and more
people come to faith in Christ to use
you to change people's lives, but that's
not a burden for you to bear that's
his, but that doesn't discount that
God desires to do more and more in us.
And so we get to worship through it.
So we're gonna talk more and more
about that today, and I love it.
Right.
So I kind of wanna set this up right.
As we talk about worship, and now we
talk about Jesus' worthy of our worship.
What is worship.
So I wanna start there because I'd
love to get some feedback from you.
If somebody was to walk up to you
and they say, Hey, what is worship?
How would you respond?
What would be your answer?
What is worship?
Praising God, what else?
What is worship singing?
Okay.
What else?
Spending time with him.
Reading your Bible.
What else?
Focusing on him.
Anything else?
Serving?
See there's many aspects of worship.
Let's give you a few.
I wrote down and you guys
were obviously right spot on.
Right?
When we worship, we're doing it to
honor and show reverence to God.
When we worship, we're giving
our entire self, our thoughts
and our emotions to God.
When we worship it's in response to
what God has done will do in your life
and in the lives of those around you.
See, we live in a world that spends
a lot of time worshiping, right?
But we, we find that we also live in
a church culture where we spend a lot
of time worshiping other things than.
So, let me just jump out there, give
a great example of something that I
dealt with in my life and not a great
example of worship in a good way, but
a great example of what worship was.
So whenever I give my life to
Christ and Brit will remember
this, we're a young family.
Um, and I spent the
majority of my weekends.
Let me tell you what the majority
of my weekends look like.
Saturday was college football OU
I watched college football a day.
Then it was Sunday morning.
It was NASCAR Sunday, a.
And some NFL football.
And then Monday night was
obviously an NFL football and I
like lived and died by sports.
I worshiped sports.
It was high on my priority.
I had emotional highs and lows.
I screamed out loud.
I celebrated, you know, I sometimes
bowed down because I was so frustrated.
Like you name it right.
I loved sports.
It consumed me.
When I gave my life to Christ,
God began to weed things out.
And so, you know, I'm actually wearing
an OU shirt today, so go sinners, right.
Channing's wearing a Dallas cowboy shirt.
So we love sports still.
But in the process of worshiping the
Lord in my life, I begin to realize
there was something different.
See Saturdays, Sunday mornings,
which ended up being at church.
Then whenever I get my life, my Christ.
So I was missing some
things or Sunday afternoons.
I tended to get more excited
about worshiping sports
than I did about the Lord.
And I thought something's wrong.
I'm missing something.
Right.
And when I realized that, man,
Jesus is worthy of our worship,
that it started changing in my life.
Right.
I could go to church on Sundays and
stand there with my hands in the pocket.
Wondering why he's singing one more verse.
The same verse over and over again.
I just wanna sit down.
My legs are hurting.
When, if I went to know you game,
you would never sit down and
you would never stop cheering.
That didn't bother me.
I didn't say man, why don't
the game get less interesting.
So I can sit down in my
seat and go home early.
No, we wanted to go into overtime.
Right?
So when I started thinking through
that, I started being convicted because
I cared more and I celebrated more.
When, when OU scored a touchdown
than whenever Jesus changed my.
See, I knew how to worship well, but
I was not worshiping the right thing.
Right.
So something had to change.
And so my heart began to grow, grow
stronger with the Lord and my emotional
rollercoaster and Brittney owes this.
If OU lost on a Saturday,
I was mad for three days.
I was mad.
I was grumpy and I mean,
that's stupid guys.
It's stupid, but that was me.
So that began to change.
And so now.
I can watch, literally
Brittney knows this.
I can watch it or not watch it.
You gave my love to, I
watched somebody yesterday.
It was half time.
We didn't get to watch
half the game yesterday.
I didn't cried.
Didn't complain.
Didn't matter.
And if they would've lost yesterday
to Nebraska, I wouldn't have cared.
I could have slept.
But in the past, I couldn't why,
because my heart changed because I
cared more about my worship to the
Lord and, and my relationship with
the Lord and my relationship with
my family and, and who Christ was
in my life than I was about sports.
And that's, again, a great example
of what worship is, but in the
wrong way, why do I bring this up?
Because we all worship something,
whether we know it or not, you
begin to place things in our lives.
And I hope, and I pray that it's God
in your life, but for some of us.
It's our family for some of us,
it's our job for some of us.
It's our work for some of us.
It's, you know, sports or food, you
name it, you place it in what'd you say
kids, we worship them so much that we
focus so much on them, that we take out
the opportunity for worship for God.
I hope today that you'll learn
a little bit more as I did.
And as I jumped into the Psalm
Psalm one 50 of how the Psalmist
challenges us to worship.
I hope that you worship differently
because of what you'll learn today.
So let's look at this Psalm one 15,
if you found your place, say amen.
All right, awesome.
Let's go.
So it says this hallelujah,
praise God in his sanctuary,
praise him in his mighty expanse.
Praise him for his powerful acts.
Praise him for his abundant.
Great, great.
Praise him with the trumpet blast,
praise him with a harp and Allier praise
him with the tambourine and dance.
Praise him with strings and flute.
Praise him with resounding symbols.
Praise him with clashing symbols.
Let everything that breathes.
Praise the Lord.
Hallelujah.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus.
We pray that your word will not return
void today, and that will be changed
and transformed into more and more like.
Where our hearts are worshiping you
and you alone and that everything
else PEs in comparison, Lord, we
pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So the one things that we'll
see here right off the bat, and
I love this is the first line.
Hallelujah.
See I think about this whenever
I think about hallelujah.
I think about when I was in Africa, I
used to go on a lot of mission trips to
Africa when I was at my pastor church.
And when we go there, they would
gather a group of people up.
And that was the first thing they
would get to get their attention.
They would say hallelujah,
and everybody would say, amen.
And then they would say, amen.
And you'd say, hallelujah.
And it was, it was kind of a call to
the service, a call to worship a call.
To focus on Jesus.
See, when we look at the word,
hallelujah, is, is really transferred or
translated into God, be praised, right?
It's utter and worship as
an expression of rejoicing.
So whenever I think about
hallelujah, it is a call to worship.
That's what this almost was doing.
He was calling the people as he's
writing this to worship or to praise.
I think about this, like in this
moment, it's like everybody listen up.
Hey, praise the Lord.
God has changed my life.
Everybody come near let's praise the Lord.
God has changed your life.
Come on, praise the Lord.
Why can we say hallelujah?
Because God has changed our lives.
Praise the Lord.
And in this call to worship or praise
the reader and the writer of this
actually, and the reader of a us.
Should realize that
this is all about Jesus.
This is all about God, right?
It's not focused on what this person
gets out of worship, but really in the
fact of what, who we're worshiping.
Right.
And it's putting all the
focus on what God has done.
Right.
So true worship puts all the focus
on Jesus and not on ourselves.
So this Psalm starts off with
hallelujah, praise the Lord, right?
God be praised.
And it ends with hallelujah.
God be praise.
So let's jump in and we're gonna
answer a couple of questions.
Number one, the Psalmus tells
us where we should praise God,
where we should praise God.
And we see this in the first verse.
He says, praise God in his sanctuary
and praise him in his mighty expanse.
So when we look at this, the Selmi is
saying, praise God in his sanctuary.
In that time, obviously in the Selma God.
Its presence was in the
temple or in the sanctuary.
So people would come to the temple
and they would praise the Lord there.
So somebody told me this, what
has changed since the time of
this Psalmist writing this, right?
Where is God's presence now?
Us everywhere.
God's everywhere we are.
That's everywhere in creation.
Now we understand that God's
presence is every, so I love this.
When we look at.
He's really challenging us that if
we're reading this text, this, he
says, praise God on earth because
God's presence is everywhere.
His presence is in us.
And so when he says that there's no
place, guys, there's no place that
God should not be praised no place.
It's not just Sunday morning.
And this is why I want us.
It's so clear if we read this as
it sets, you guys would say this.
Yeah, we, we come every Sunday.
They play instruments and we praise check.
But now we see this in the way that
God has transformed his presence
in our lives, in everything we do.
And the Soma says, praise God,
everywhere, everywhere you are.
So think about this.
You're in your car, you're in your house.
You're around family.
You're at work.
You're eating dinner.
You're obviously at church, right?
You're in your small group,
but you can praise God every.
Because there's no place that
we cannot have praise God.
I challenge you to think on this
guys when we realize how precious
something is, we, we typically
take it and we, we honor it more.
We, we, we cherish it more,
but we live in a world.
I say a world, but we really
live in, in, in, in a nation that
actually allows us to praise God
everywhere and to worship God every.
There's so many countries where if the
name of Jesus is praised or spoke about
they would be killed or persecuted.
And we aren't.
So at times as a church, we say our, we
save our praising for Sunday mornings,
the sanctuary, we read this Psalm
straight up and we say, yep, sanctuary.
That's all we got, but God is challenging
us to praise even without music.
So you understand this, it doesn't
take just music to praise the
Lord or to worship the Lord.
So we can praise God every.
But then he challenges us, right?
This is the cool part.
This is where he kinda gets up here.
Right?
He says, praise him in his mighty expanse.
This idea is, is the idea of praising
him in heaven or praising him
beyond our understanding because
his power and his glory is mighty.
It's vast, it's bright, it's powerful.
It influences the whole earth.
So basically he's saying praise
God in heaven, because of
all he has done all, he will.
There is no place that is ever created
that we should not praise the Lord.
And here's the thing.
If you don't like praise you better not
go to heaven, cuz we're gonna spend the
rest of our lives, praising the Lord and,
and I'm telling you so, so, you know, I
understand this is not a knock to anybody
that doesn't want to praise in service.
You don't have a good voice or you.
You got a deep voice and
you don't sing louder.
You're just not, you're very introverted.
I get this.
So that's not like to
knock on you on that.
Cuz I get that it's uncomfortable
sometimes to praise in a group.
But I would say this, this challenge
today is for us to recognize
when something is so precious.
We recognize it by celebrating
it and giving praise and honor,
and God has done so much for us
that if he did not do one more.
He's worthy.
We praise the rest of our
lives, no matter where we are.
That's the challenge that we see here.
Right?
So the first thing we learn
is where we should praise God
and ultimately everywhere.
That's simple.
Right?
You can't find a place that you can't
praise him or you shouldn't praise him.
Number two, right in verse two,
what should we praise him for?
Right.
We can praise him anywhere,
but if I don't have a reason
to praise God, I won't do it.
I just won't do it.
Right.
So sometimes we need to know the reason.
We should praise the Lord or
desire to praise the Lord.
And so he says this in his word,
praise him for his powerful acts,
praise him for his abundant greatness.
I love this, the word
powerful and abundant.
It just, it speaks of
all that God has done.
He doesn't say, you know, praise
him for the small things that he's
done and the occasional things and
the, you know, the okay things.
He says, these are powerful acts
and these are abundant things.
It's so easy to forget as I
was talking about earlier.
So easy to forget all that God has done.
I just want us to start
from the beginning.
I'm not gonna just go a long, long
ways with this, but if you just use
God's word and you get into God's
word and you begin to think this
what powerful acts and what abundant
greatness did God do read Genesis.
God created the heavens and the.
He created everything, the water
and the trees and the food and the
animals and his greatest creation
is you like, just stop there.
And we got enough.
To praise the Lord forward because
he is great and powerful, but then it
goes on God desired to have a personal
relationship with, with his creation.
And so he did until obviously our sin
broke that, but God still pursued us so
much that you see in the word of God,
in the old Testament that he pursued
the people in slavery, he brought them
up outta slavery and he showed so many
mighty acts to give them the promise land.
Then even when they messed up
again, he brought them back.
Gave them a king.
And whenever that messed up,
he still brought them back
again and he forgave them.
And then if we wanna go in the
new Testament, he sent his son
Jesus, because of his greatness.
He could bring God into the
flesh, live a perfect life.
To show what love and grace and
mercy and patience and goodness and
kindness and all these things that
we get to see in the life of Jesus.
God gave us that then not only did he
give us that in the flesh, he says, no.
I'm not gonna judge you for your sins
and your fondness, your brokenness.
I'm going to judge my son,
my perfect son for you.
God's power is great because he chose to
take the punishment we deserved and place
it on his son in which he sent for us.
God's power God's greatness.
God has done so many things
just when we look at the word of
God, he is worthy to be praised.
Amen.
He is worthy to be praised that's enough.
This is the question I want to ask
now, what has God done for you?
Because I'm telling you at times when
you see God do something for somebody
else, it just doesn't hit sometimes
where we need it to hit, because
we're like, but that was for them.
That was in the old Testament.
That was in the new Testament.
That was 2000 years ago.
What's God done for me?
Well, I know this I've been around enough
of you long enough that you got something.
To praise God for that.
He has been great and he has done
abundant and he has been powerful.
So why don't we share some of those?
What has God done for you?
That we can praise the
Lord about your turn life?
Just being able to breathe and exist.
Amen.
What else?
He's faithful.
Amen.
What else?
Hmm.
Family.
Yes, God has provided family.
What else?
Beating cancer.
Amen.
Praise God.
Yeah.
What else?
Food.
See, you're just gonna go
down the list, sleep sugar.
Okay.
Thank you, Lord preachy.
Jesus.
All right.
What else?
Forgiveness.
Oh, man, I need that purpose.
Yes.
What else?
Salvation.
Hope let's keep going.
Joy.
Community's keep going.
What can you praise the Lord about coffee?
Yes.
And parents who will buy it for you?
Salvation.
Yes.
Peace.
What is long suffering?
Oh man.
Music.
Holy spirit.
Anything else?
What can you praise the Lord?
Inspiring hope church.
Amen.
This community of people
guys brought together.
Amen.
Because I think, and this is the
cool part and I, and I'm so glad
you guys participated in this.
I think we could continue to go on and,
and, and we could continue to dive a
little bit deeper because what I would
say is majority, not all majority of
these were very like surface level.
So as you start thinking about diving
a little bit deeper, I'm gonna give you
some stories where I can praise the.
And I want you to think of
those stories in your life.
And I want you to praise
the Lord for those two.
So I think about this guys,
despite the difficulties that
I went through as a child.
And, and there's a long story that
some of you heard, some of you haven't,
I was still able to find hope and
help in Jesus, despite those things
from unforgiveness that I had to
selfishness that I had as, as I was
getting to an adult and as the greed
that I had in my life, I'm so thankful.
That the Lord was powerful enough to
bring me outta those circumstances
and those situations to save me.
I start thinking about my marriage
and my four wonderful kids.
And, and there's no reason
I'm just telling you.
There's some things again, that
everybody doesn't fully understand,
but our marriage is, is today.
What it is because God saved that marriage
through saving me and changing our
family by bringing Jesus into our life.
We had the kids in our
life because God save.
Our family and he showed up in our family.
See, here's a, a, a, a personal story.
And again, you guys have probably heard
some of you heard this, but Teagan's story
when Tegan literally she had lung issues
right after birth and God saved her.
And we still, to this day,
we don't wanna take that for
granted because God showed up.
We have a lot to praise God
for I'll just tell you this.
God has provided job after job
financial, Providence time after time.
No, I'm not rich my bank.
Account's not.
But it seemed like every single
time that our family had a need,
God provided for that need.
And as I think back, God is powerful.
God is good.
His greatness is amazing.
Then I think about this church.
And all the people in here and how
God brought each one of you into this
story and he's transformed your life.
And he's used you in the situations
he's used you and he has used you.
So, you know, from a personal temple
in our family to bless us and to
love on us and to support us and to
encourage us as a family, God is good.
When I think of these things guys,
and I start actually listing out where
God has shown up powerfully, where he
has shown abundant things in my life.
Oh my gosh.
Praise be to God, but you are as
much the struggle that I have.
I asked the question, what
have you done for me lately?
And, and we're here in a moment.
We're gonna get to talk about the
different words in Hebrew appraise,
and you're gonna love this because
man, it just transformed my.
But I, I tend to get caught up in only
praising God for what he's done for me
lately and complaining to God about what
he's not done for me lately as well.
And then this is just transforming
my heart and I hope it transforms
your heart and what praise is.
Right.
We can look at this and we can say,
hallelujah, praise God everywhere.
And for everything, God
is worthy to be praised.
He talks about that, right?
That we can praise God everywhere and we
can praise God for everything he's done.
But then he says, how
should we praise him?
And I'm gonna expand on this because
he's going to use one specific
angle of, of, of worship or praise.
And he's gonna talk about
these instruments, right?
He speaks directly to this and he says
this, praise him with the trumpet,
blast, praise him with the harp and a li
praise him with the tambourine and dance.
Praise him with strings and.
Praise him with resounding symbols.
After I read this, I called up Matt,
Amanda, Laura Orville everybody's on tech
team said we gotta change instruments.
We're doing it wrong.
They laughed and said,
eh, we've progressed.
Okay.
So, okay.
I see it.
It's okay.
But really what he's saying here
is this is a type of worship or
praise that included instruments
that would be created to praise God.
Right?
Obviously we've seen them adapt
and change, but I wanna take some.
To talk about multiple ways that we can
praise God, not just with instruments.
Right?
And so in doing research cool
part again, this isn't on me.
This is on what God
does in his Providence.
I, I, I found an article talking about
seven Hebrew words for praise or worship.
I wanna talk about this and, and
PEY and Chan are actually gonna
go hand these out to you guys.
Cause I want you to see these
copies and you can have, why
don't you guys start doing that?
You start handing those out to
everybody, um, start with one per family.
And when you get done, go back
around and give extras to every.
Cause I think we have enough.
I think I printed off like
20 something, but just start
passing 'em out and we'll see.
Here's what I want you to think about
as we talk about these words of praise.
How many of all in the same
sentence said, man, I love my
wife and I love cheeseburgers.
Okay.
Maybe or husband.
Hey, there we go.
Dave's got me.
Thanks, Dave.
Okay.
We, we used the word love
in the same sentence.
Do we really mean the same thing, honey?
I'm pretty sure I love you
more than a cheeseburger.
Okay, exactly.
So what I would mean by that
in our English words, we
sometimes don't differentiate.
Now we understand when I use the word love
for cheeseburgers and love for my wife,
you guys know what that means, but at
times we don't really communicate that.
Right.
And so when we read in God's
word and we see the word praise.
We see the word worship, but most of
the time it's translated praise, right?
Praise, we think, oh, it's just praise.
So it's one way of praise, but
there's actually multiple ways that
these words are translated and you're
gonna love this because it's changed
me as I begin to read over this.
So we're gonna walk through this
together and we're gonna see
these different words, a praise.
And so starting there again,
this is from AGLO international
seven Hebrew words for praise.
We're gonna watch through each one.
And if I don't say the Hebrew
word correctly, just forgive me.
Okay.
The first one is halal.
It says it is a primary Hebrew
root root word for praise.
Right?
Our word for hallelujah
comes from this base word.
It means to be clear to praise, to shine,
to boast, to show, to RA, to celebrate.
So I'm gonna have you guys participate.
Who wants to read?
I just want, we're just gonna read
one verse out of each one of these
sections who wants to read that
first verse it's listed on the paper.
There's Psalm 1 13, 1 through three.
And don't you say the
word and parenthesis.
That's just what that word praise means.
Who wants to say Elisa?
Go ahead.
So when we look at this word,
this is an invitation to worship.
This is to praise.
And, and so you guys know each week, our
worship team is teaching you to halal.
They are inviting you to worship,
to praise, to, to invite you in,
to praise the Lord, to shine and
to, to show the magnitude of God.
And so when they worship, they are shining
the light of Jesus for the world to.
So a lot of times we're doing
this on Sunday, so that's just
a great example of Sunday.
So the next one is YDA and it's a
verb with the root meaning is to
the extended hand to throw out the
hand, therefore to worship with the
extended hand or to lift the hand.
So here's where we start getting
uncomfortable because it's the
moment where I'm just so you guys
know I'm from the Baptist faith.
This is, this is sometimes allowed.
But when we start going here, it may
get a little bit uncomfortable in the
church, but, but the word praise, in some
instances in the word of God talks about
praise and, and, and I look at this and
I go, this is honorable to God, right?
It's uncomfortable.
But I wanna challenge you with this when
our comfort is more important than his.
Um, command to worship when our comfort
is more important than his command to
worship than we probably are worshiping
the wrong thing, which is our comfort.
It's just so you know, the steps
on my toes because it took me
so long and Bri knows this.
It took me so long to get
comfortable to probably even just
take my hands outta my pocket.
right.
And maybe start bouncing the niece.
Right.
And I just, so you know, I mean, you
guys probably watched that little
spoof of the guy, the comedian
talking about the hands worship.
It's hilarious.
It's great.
You should watch it.
I probably should have put up here
today, but my, the point behind this
is when we're talking about worship.
This is one way that God has called
us in the word of God to worship.
So who wants to read second Chronicles?
2021.
That's on here, the first scripture on
the page for this one who wants to read.
Anybody.
Oh, let's go back here to Dave
and I'll come back to you.
Yep.
Amen.
Right.
So we look at this give
thanks to the Lord.
And then when he's saying this,
he's saying give thanks to the Lord.
Brez loving kindness is everlasting.
Do you guys know what this sign is?
And this is not a good sign.
When the police officer says,
put your hands up, surrender.
Right.
It's it's, here's what it is.
It's a sign of weakness.
You're open.
You're vulnerable.
You wanna know why we probably
struggle to lift our hands in worship
because we're vulnerable, but praise,
praise leads us to vulnerability.
It leads us open to God.
It, it, it it's, it's a form of
surrender and yet it's uncomfortable.
I know this just so you know, this
isn't a Sunday morning thing either.
This is a life.
So every morning, uh, think about this.
Maybe you need to yada in the morning
and just surrender to the Lord, right?
Maybe it's at work when it is difficult.
And you need to remind yourself that his
loving kindness is everlasting, right.
Is what we need.
And God is called us in
the, in the word to do this.
So let's look at the next one.
So, you know, This is one
that, that, that I need more.
I need more it's TAA.
It comes from the same principle,
root root word of yadda it,
but is used more specifically.
TAA literally means an extension of the
hand in adoration of vow or acceptance.
And I love this by way of application.
It is apparent in the Psalms and
elsewhere that it is used for thanking
God for things not yet received.
As things, yah, not yet received.
Let me just give you a great example here.
It's praising in faith, heard the
story where this guy was going through
all these strategies and all these
difficulties, but it seemed like he
just was always praising the Lord.
And somebody asked him this question,
how do you praise the Lord in the
midst of these dire situations?
How do you not worry?
And this is what the, the guy says.
He says, I don't worry.
I.
I don't worry.
I worship.
So this is a challenge to move our worry
of whether we have enough money or whether
we're, what is the doctor gonna say, or
will we ever get over this hump of this,
or will our kids ever, ever learn this,
or will we ever have a good marriage
or will our kids ever listen to us?
Whatever you worry about, our worry
should transition into da to worship.
To worship and faith that God
will change your circumstances.
To know that God hears your praise.
Your praise to God is an offering
to him and he hears you and he
desires to move on your behalf.
And it's a prayer and praise of faith.
He goes, I need this, I need this
because it is hard sometimes to praise
in the midst of uncertainty and.
So somebody read Psalm 50 14.
Let's let's just let Lauren do this.
Cuz you raised your hand in a minute.
Psalm 50 14.
Is that first one?
Amen.
So we see that God desires
for us to praise and faith.
So let's continue on the next one
on the backside is Shaak which means
to shout, to address and allow tone
and to command a trumpet or tri.
Let me mention two examples.
So I think this'll make sense.
Number one, it's a spiritual example.
I'll go first.
I don't know if you've
ever, and it's occasional.
I dunno if you've ever heard my wife in
the middle of worship, just go, whoa.
And you're probably
wondering what just happened.
That is an expression of Shabbat.
It is a loud shout to praise the Lord.
To address the Lord and
to, to give him praise.
And again, guys, this is uncomfortable
because shouldn't, we be reserved
and humble and we'll get to that one
at times, the word of God, and I'm
gonna read this one in Psalm 47 1.
He says, oh, clap your hands.
All you people shout to
God with the voice of joy.
Sometimes that's what we need
to do is to praise God in that.
See, here's one where you're gonna
relate if you're a Bengals fan and
when Dallas is getting hammered
later, you know what you're gonna do?
Woo.
Go Bengals.
And that's not gonna be
uncomfortable, is it?
But it's uncomfortable to pray.
I'm just so you know, I'm
stepping on my own toes.
This isn't just you.
Okay.
It's some challenging me
that God is teaching us.
What worship truly is.
Let's look at the next one.
Barack, which means to kneel
down to bless God as an act of
adoration or to salute, right?
This is that moment of humility.
This is that moment that we saw
Amanda up here where she just felt
so led by God to get a hundred earns.
And to just say, I surrender,
Lord, I praise you for who you are.
This is a difficult position.
Number one, my knees are hurting.
Number two, if you're old
enough, you might not get back.
But it is a position that is
honoring to the Lord guys.
It, it is a show that you need
God to move that he is good,
that he is worthy to be humble.
And to go before the Lord, see, this
is another area and I want somebody
to read this verse nine, Psalm 95.
Actually, I want you to read Psalm 34
1, which is the last one on this one,
Psalm 34, 1 who wants to read that?
Chaning go ahead, buddy.
I love that his praise shall
continually be in my mouth.
I heard somebody give this example on this
one that even though we are bowed down,
we're kneeling down to the Lord that this
is a praise that our eyes never leave.
The Lord that we follow him
wherever he goes, that we do not.
Let our lives ever stop seeing
the Lord and to praise him.
Right.
The next one is Zar and we kind
of already talked about this one.
Zar means to pluck the
strings of an instrument.
Right?
Good job, Matt and Doug.
You're doing it.
Woohoo.
Right or to sing and to praise.
So good job, everybody that's
singing and praising, right.
Musical words, which is largely
involved with joyful expressions
of music with musical instruments.
Right?
So weekly worship, this makes total sense.
Does somebody run a
read Psalm 2113 for me?
Amen, man.
This last one's a fun one.
Tola Tola and this is not tequila.
So don't go home and
praise God with tequila.
It's Tola make sure we
got that right though.
What you send me pictures later
saying I'm praises in God.
I'll pay for that one later.
So this is actually a really good one.
Let's get serious here.
This is really good.
One.
This is another one of my.
Okay.
That's another one of my favorites.
It's derived from the word Halah and
means to sing the singing of Haahs
or to sing or to law perceived to
involve music, especially singing
hymns of the spirit or praise.
And as it begin to study a little
bit more about this, this is
just really a great example.
This is really spontaneous singing, any
better ever, just walking around and
all of a sudden, you just start singing.
And sometimes it's to some of
the worship songs that you know,
but sometimes it's your own.
See this to Lela is
sometimes a personal song.
It's a moment when you start repeating
words, that means something so much
deepens down inside your heart.
It's a new song for you guys.
There is days where I sing a new song and
it's a song of praise to the Lord that is
an offering to him that, that he hears.
And I need him to hear.
Right.
And so he says this in Psalm
22 3, yet that art, holy.
O th who art and thrown
upon the praise of Israel.
And so I gave you these, this handout
one to say, thank you to the person that
did do this, because this was powerful
as begin to study more about this.
But two, this is a great thing to
hang up on your, your, your, I don't
know if you still do this, hang it
up on your fridge, put it in your
prayer journal and think what is, what
is one area that I can praise God.
In today that I can, I can
praise him in a different way.
I can worship him in a different way.
And we see these as examples to follow.
So I hope this was helpful for you.
It encouraged me for sure.
So as we see these seven different ways to
praise God, these are all different ways
to show, show our appreciation, our love,
our trust, our faith, our belief in God.
He is our sustainer, our provider, and
our savior, and he is worthy to be praise.
Let's not miss the last part of
this Psalm who should be praised.
So we said, where should he be praised?
Why should he be praised
basically how he should be
praised and who should praise him?
It says, let everything that breathe.
Praise the Lord.
Everybody do something with
me, everybody ready on three.
You're gonna take a deep breath.
1, 2, 3.
Great.
We all fit this standard.
Check mark.
You can't get outta this one.
Okay.
Let everything that
breathes praise the Lord.
Let me ask this question to you.
Why should everyone that
breathes praise the Lord?
Because we have breath in our it's simple.
It's it's that simple.
And, and guys, so you understand.
You may be going through or have
gone through some of the most
difficult circumstances in your life.
And I can't even imagine what you're
dealing with, but if you just took a
deep breath, God is worthy to be praised.
Like in the simplest thing.
Maybe you've gotta narrow
it down to that today.
And some days that's all I
need to narrow down to Lord.
Everything seems to be falling down
around me, but that breath that I
just breathe is enough to praise you.
Everything that has breath should praise.
So why do we struggle to praise God?
It's usually, and, and again, when I
say, why do we struggle to praise God
in these ways that we just mentioned?
It's usually because we say
this one, I'm not a singer.
My voice is bad and I will am with you.
I am not a good singer.
Right?
I'm uncomfortable.
It's, it's uncomfortable to praise
God in some of these ways because
it, it, it makes me vulnerable.
Or what if somebody looks at
me and what if I look weird?
What if I sound weird?
I get it.
We struggle to praise the Lord
sometimes because we take it for
granted that we get to praise the
one who gave us everything we have.
Right.
So I look at this and I say, I get it.
I totally understand it.
My challenge for you is to lean into
it a little bit more and, and, and
to begin to find ways to worship
the Lord differently this week.
Look at this list and say, how can I,
even if it's in the own private room
on your drive, that you start shouting
out to the Lord, or maybe it's in your
closet where you get out on your knees,
or maybe it's next week on Sunday, when
we have a worship Sunday where you join
and worship for the first time and you
belt out as loud as you can with, with
song, whatever it is, I just encourage
you to take a next step and experience.
What the Lord has given us as,
as an opportunity, as an example,
as a command to praise him,
even though it's uncomfortable.
I wanna end before I kind of walk through
a conclusion here of, of the message.
I wanna walk through Psalm 96.
This Psalm came to my heart and I
really wanted to walk through this.
And so I'm asking for one
person to read the whole Psalm.
So is there somebody would love to
read Psalm 96 all the way through.
Anybody Psalm 96 all the way through.
Ryan's gonna read.
Okay, here we go.
Psalm 96.
No.
Okay.
thank you.
Since we think about worship and we
think about a couple of different things.
I want you to think about.
God was never created for us.
We were created for God.
So when we come to worship God
every day, whether it's worship
service, whether it's in our own
time in the cars, our preference
or our desires to be comfortable
is not the most important thing.
Worship.
I've heard this statement before.
Worship is about giving
your breath back to God.
So when you sing it.
Offering to him.
And he doesn't say sing only if you have a
good voice and you can be in the key of B.
I don't even know if that's the thing.
Okay.
If you, I dunno if it's not sorry,
but anyways, that's how much, I
don't know, worship and I still sing.
Okay.
That's just a great example.
So when worship's about giving
your breath back to God, right?
Giving our praise, our life, our
gratitude to God and all he has done for.
We have all been given the resources.
This is my challenge.
Every week.
We, I, I give you the resources to
go out and apply this to your life.
This, this paper that talks
about the seven different ways
that we can praise and worship.
God, which ones have you neglected?
I, I can see a couple on
there where I'm good at.
Like, I love praise in the Lord in these
areas, but there's some that's vulnerable.
There's some that I've just been avoiding.
There's some that I
didn't even know about.
And I'm hoping that you learn
something today that you can begin
to apply these to your life and be
a part of the corporate worship as.
So take them, practice them,
talk about them, live them out.
And as you do, I'll just tell you this,
as you do, not only are we honoring the
Lord, but there is something special.
There's something special about
worshiping the Lord and how
that brings you closer to God.
And if you're wondering this,
just, just wanna challenge you
this, Y you ever struggle with just
wanting to get in the word of God?
I know I do.
Even as a pastor, I still
wanna open the word of God.
I'm like, eh, when I spend
time praising the Lord.
Like I'll turn on music.
And I start praising Lord and genuine.
I'm listening to the words
and I'm praising him.
I wanna know him more and it just makes
me wanna get into the word and it,
and it makes me wanna know him more.
And it makes me wanna tell
other people about him when
I spend time Pring the Lord.
So maybe that's what you need.
Maybe that's what we all need.
It's just to start with
praise in the mornings.
And maybe that will draw you into more
of the Lord and more of what God's called
you to, and more to experience of him.
But my challenge always is every.
If you're sitting here and you're
hearing worship about the Lord and
how do I worship him, but you've
never given your life to him.
Maybe you've never just taken that
step of faith to say, I trust you.
And I believe that you are
worthy to be worshiped.
Today is that day.
And I think too many times
we put it off till tomorrow.
Next week, when today is the day that
God has given you to experience his
hope and his salvation and his love.
In a day that you can begin to worship
him truly with your heart and your life.
And if that's you today,
I want to talk with you.
That's why I stand in the back.
That's why I stay at service over
there to the next steps table.
I wanna.
Conversations about what
it means to follow Jesus.
I wanna have conversations with you
about applying these things today.
If you're struggling with worship and
how to, if you've given your life to
Christ and just struggling with being
engaged with the Lord and, and being
able to follow him, maybe you need to
just come talk and I don't have anything
special other than just a friend to
listen to and talk about what we can
do together to help pursue the Lord.
I challenge you to take that next step.
I challenge you the next day,
the next step, but during.
Invitation when we take time to pray and
ask Lord this question, what parts of
worship do we need to apply to our lives?
What areas do I need
to take next steps in?
Maybe it's a step of faith during
this time of invitation do that.
But then as we stand up to worship,
worship differently, worship differently.
Then when you sat down at the end
of worship, that may look something
different for each person, but don't
hold back because Jesus is worth.
To worship.
So I'm gonna pray for us.
And then we will have
a time of invitation.
Lord Jesus.
We love you, Lord.
We're so thankful Lord for you because
we know that you love us so much.
Lord, as we reflect on this
Psalm, we reflect on how you've
invited us to praise the Lord.
Lord we've reminded, been reminded
Lord that your word does not
return void, and we know that we
can praise you on earth and in.
We know that we can praise you
Lord, because of your greatness
because of your power, because of
all the things you've done for us.
Lord, we have so much to
praise you about Lord.
And I just want to remind ourselves Lord
today that if you did not do anything
else, Lord, that we have enough to
praise you for the rest of our lives.
So Lord, we are praising you today, but
Lord, thank you for giving us the wisdom.
Today through your word and through
just studying about what worship is and,
and praise Lord that we learned so many
different ways that we can praise you.
Lord God, don't let us leave here
today and continue on praising the
same way we've been praising you.
Lord, let us take something that we
learned today and begin to apply that
to our lives Lord, so that we can grow
closer to you so that we can honor
you more with our lives and Lord,
so that we can be encouraged in our.
As we go and pursue relationships
with other people to help
them come to faith in you.
And to be able to praise you
Lord, for the first time, there
is no person in this room.
There's no person in our city.
There's no person in each one of our
lives, Lord, that should not praise you.
Everyone has been called to praise
you and to come to know you.
So as we end today in prayer, as we
end today in worship, Lord hallelu.
Praise God may we honor you
with our worship and our praise.
We pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.